---
layout: post
title: "Lab jobs and ordering"
description: "Shared jobs for wet-lab members."
about: true
author_handle: rb
tags: [labmanual, wetlab]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# Shared jobs in the wet lab

In order to share communal equipment and reagents fairly amongst lab members, each person who works in the wet lab is allocated a number of jobs.
These jobs are necessary to ensure the lab runs smoothly.
Our goal is to ensure that jobs are shared equitably and efficiently; please talk to Rosey and/or Edward about any issues.

This page details which jobs each lab member is assigned responsibility for. 
Most jobs are allocated to more than one person to ensure that jobs are done if someone is away.
More details on individual jobs are given in the notes, below.

| Lab Job                                                              | When?       | Person(s) Responsible  |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------- | ---------------------- |
| Placing Wallace Lab Orders                                           | 2x weekly   | Rosey/Laura            |
| Placing Communal Lab Orders                                          | 2x weekly   | Rosey                  |
| Receiving and Putting away Communal Lab Orders                       | Check daily | Rachael/Marah/Weronika |
| Receiving and Putting away Wallace Lab Orders                        | Check daily | Weronika/Marah/Rachael |
| Making up 0.5M EDTA, pH8.0 before it runs out                        | As needed   | Weronika/Rachael       |
| Making up fresh 50x TAE before it runs out                           | As needed   | Marah/Rachael          |
| Making Competent DH5alpha/Mach1 E.coli cells                         | As needed   | Rachael/Laura          |
| Looking after the desktop Microscope and tablet                      | As needed   | Liz/Laura              |
| Looking after the Fragment Analyzer (Wad 3.18)                       | As needed   | Liz/Weronika           |
| Looking after the Lightcycler 480 qPCR machine (Wad 3.19)            | As needed   | Rosey/Liz              |
| Looking after the OT-2 Robot                                         | As needed   | Laura/Weronika         |
| Looking after the Wallace Lab Incubators (Wad 2.19)                  | As needed   | Rosey                  |
| Looking after the new GelDoc System (when it arrives)                | As needed   | Rosey/Laura            |
| Looking after the PreCellys                                          | As needed   | Liz                    |
| Looking after the Wallace Lab Gel Kit and Powerpack                  | As needed   | Everyone               |
| Returning our ice boxes and lids to our bays                         | Promptly    | Everyone               |
| Emptying Autoclave Bags before they get too full for the Autoclave   | Check daily | Everyone in that area  |
| Replacing Envelopes for Sequencing Samples BEFORE they run out       | When low    | Everyone               |
| Keeping an eye on stocks of Consumables BEFORE they run out          | Constantly  | Everyone               |

## Notes

### Inventory and ordering

"Communal Lab Orders" means those which are shared with other groups in Waddington 2.18.

The inventory and ordering system is (will be) described in ["where lab stuff belongs" manual page](where-lab-stuff-belongs).
Everyone is responsible for keeping track of lab stocks of consumables and updating the inventory.
No-one wants to interrupt an experiment because stocks of some reagent or consumable are low.

Plan ahead: if you are planning to run 100 PCR reactions in 2 weeks' time, check the polymerase stocks and order more now.
If in doubt, talk about it on the #lab channel on slack.

### Looking after an instrument 

This usually involves:

* being familiar with the user manual and its location
* ensuring that the machine is clean and functional
* checking on maintenance requirements
* training new users
* keeping an eye on use, e.g. users acting erroneously or not cleaning up after themselves. 
* communicating about problems

### Competent cells 

*E.coli*
If you are only doing a few transformations or using larger plasmids then it is probably better to use bought competent cells of the relevant strain (eg. NEB10B for bigger plasmids, NEB5alpha for small numbers of smaller plasmids, Dam- strains for growing up pML104 or pML107 to clone gRNAs) as it is easier to troubleshoot issues. However, if you need to do lots of transformations that do not rely on  high transformation efficiencies then it is worth considering making your own. There are links to protocols in protocols.io in the Wallace lab for Fungal RNA Workspace for making TOP10, DH10B or DH5alpha competent cells and also for making Mach1 competent cells.

*S. cerevisiae*
If you are doing episomal plasmid transformations into yeast you should consider making frozen competent cells of your yeast strain - again protocols are available in the Wallace lab for Fungal RNA Workspace at protocols.io.

### Preparing Communal Lab Buffer Stocks

Recipes for preparing 50x TAE Buffer (used at 1x concentration for running agarose gels) and for preparing 0.5M EDTA, pH8.0 (required for preparing 50x TAE and for a number of other buffers used in the lab) are printed out on notices on the blanked-off cupboards above both our Yeast and Cryptococcus lab bays.

### Keeping Our Lab Spaces Clean and Tidy and Looking After Equipment

**DO NOT** overfill autoclave waste bags - they should not be filled any more than 2/3 full or they will not fit in the autoclave and have to be emptied again. When a bag is getting full, twist the bag and seal the neck with autoclave tape and then fill in a sticky label with the Room Number, Your Name and the Date(t here are usually some sheets of labels lying beside the hood in our Yeast bay or behind the Vari-X-Linker and you can get more from the media room). 

Empty ice-boxes when finished and drain them by the sink but remember to take them away promptly as room at the sinks is limited.

Look after both our own agarose gel kit and the communal lab ones by rinsing them with water when finished, drying off combs and casting dams and putting them back when you are finished.

# Lab cleanup

Every 1-2 months we will organize a lab cleanup, in which everyone is expected to participate.
Usually (before COVID-19) we did these jointly with other groups in Wad 2.18/19.

Lab cleanups include:

* incubators
* centrifuge
* fridges
* throwing out old solutions, media, plates
* cleaning the floor
* etc....
